This section will define what activities make up Initiative Work
Management and the Portfolio Management Office.
Now we are on the other side of the spectrum.
This is the big,
strategic and quite frankly it can be a bit fuzzier side of the work management.
Yet in my opinion it is the most critical of the three work types for
the long-term success of your organization or company.
So we'll explore further,
and yes you had another PMO abbreviation and for this
module I just want to emphasize that the PMO stands for
the Portfolio Management Office.
Are your initiatives successfully implemented.
That is are your strategic plans and visions successfully fulfilled?
89% of high-performing organizations use the concept of portfolio management.
The point of this slide is that the success of initiatives,
those very large complex and strategic chunks of work,
must be managed by leveraging the best practices of portfolio management.
So for this class I will be using the term portfolio management to
represent the management and implementation of initiatives.
Let's recap the demand sources for initiatives.
If you recall we have the Board of Directors,
Steering Groups throughout the company.
Senior executives which should also include your CIO or CTO,
and business leaders.
The initiative is the goal, the endgame,
and the projects are a means to achieve those initiatives.
Initiatives require projects or programs to be successful.
They are the engine.
Also these initiative based projects here are the biggies and
very important strategically for the company.
Conversely,
projects spawn from the operations side are smaller
and more tactical in general.
So who or what is going to manage all of this?
Let's look at the organizational construct of a Portfolio Management Office.
Before we jump into the portfolio management office,
we will first define portfolio and then portfolio management.
A portfolio is a collection of programs,
projects or operations managed as a group to
achieve a strategic business purpose.
Now I want to highlight a few items.
A collection is a thoughtful grouping of business entities that
are comprised of one or more parts of an existing
organization's operations including projects,
project management offices and programs.
Also I'd like to re-emphasize a portfolio is targeted or tied to one
or more strategic business goals or initiatives.
So you can't have a portfolio just kind of hanging out there.
It must be tied to initiatives.
So that is why we call the organization that is responsible for managing
and implementing the business strategies and initiatives,
the Portfolio Management Office.
Now let's further define portfolio management.
Managing portfolios does not involve literally running the projects or programs.
Those will be run by other parts of the organization or by
program or project management offices within operational
organizational structures,
but it does involve designing the portfolios and choosing which programs
and projects to execute as part of those portfolios.
A typical company may have several portfolios.
Now let's talk a little bit more about the Portfolio Management Office,
now that we've defined portfolio and the term portfolio management.
The need for a portfolio management office.
So why have one?
First organizations today are actually pretty good at managing
individual projects or even a small number of projects,
and some employee project management offices and that is
relatively easy to tackle for most companies,
and those projects are typically spawned from operations
or a mid-level management directive.
Now challenges arise when there are multiple,
large complex projects with limited resources.
Now a company may have projects all over the place and the executive management
will be wondering if they are getting their money's worth,
and is that money being spent on doing the right work.
So it is critical therefore to establish an organizational structure,
their Portfolio Management Office and that office then acts
as the initiative process owner and the stewards of the
company's strategic investments.
Now let's drill a little deeper on what PMO's are solving.
Solving business challenges with PMOs.
So most businesses have similar challenges.
A solid portfolio management structure will go a long
way in solving these challenges.
Okay, here are some challenges.
Too many projects to invest in.
There is always too much work,
so how do you decide just what is the best things to work on?
Difficulty aligning projects and programs with initiatives.
There needs to be a central place to help ensure
projects are aligned with the initiatives.
Inadequate measurement and approaches to benefits, costs and risks.
Everyone wants their project or project to be approved,
but you really need to also look at the benefits to the business,
costs and risks, and this takes an independent group.
In over-emphasis on project execution versus project selection,
grooming and alignment.
That is why we spent the early modules focus on demand management.
Everyone seems to focus on the execution side and
not on proper project selection.
Note to self this is one of the biggest takeaways of this course.
Quality demand management and project selection.
Next operations could be ignored, when they should not.
Again there is this desire to only focus on projects.
Most times projects must include, be aware of or in some fashion relate to,
existing operations to be successful.
For example you may need some of the resources in the ops groups,
or you may be implementing a new system that affects the ops groups,
and I could come up with many more examples.
Hence don't forget about ops.
Lastly lack of total picture of business investments.
Typically many projects don't see the world from the top down,
but rather from the bottom up.
It is best to manage the initiative driven project process with the
entire business or a large segment of the business,
both of which from the investment perspective. Now let's go into more detail about the PMO processes in the next section.